{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2709
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;}
\paperw11900\paperh16840\margl1440\margr1440\vieww11520\viewh8400\viewkind0
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf0 -- Query Set 1\
select * FROM EMP;\
-- Q1. List the number of employees and average salary for employees in department 20.\
select count(EmpNo) as 'EmployeeCount', avg(Sal) as 'AverageSalary' from EMP where DeptNo=20;\
-- Q2. List name, salary and PF amount of all employees. (PF is calculated as 10% of basic salary)\
select EmpName, Sal, (0.1)*Sal as 'PF' from EMP;\
-- Q3. List the employee details in the ascending order of their basic salary.\
select * from EMP order by Sal;\
-- Q4. List the employee name and hire date in the descending order of the hire date.\
select EmpName, HireDate from EMP order by HireDate desc;\
-- Q5. List employee name, salary, PF, HRA, DA and gross; order the results in the ascending order of gross. HRA is 50% of the salary and DA is 30% of the salary.\
select EmpName, Sal, 0.1*Sal as 'PF', 0.5*Sal as 'HRA', 0.3*Sal as 'DA', Sal+0.1*Sal+0.5*Sal+0.3*Sal as Gross from EMP order by Gross;\
-- Q6. List the department numbers and number of employees in each department.\
select DeptNo, count(EmpNo) from EMP group by DeptNo;\
-- Q7. Increment the Salary of salesman by 10% of basic salary.\
update EMP set Sal=1.1*Sal where DeptNo=30;\
-- Q8. List the total salary, maximum and minimum salary and average salary of the employees, for department 20.\
select sum(Sal) as TotalSalary, max(Sal) as MaximumSalary, min(Sal) as MinimumSalary, avg(Sal) as AverageSalary from EMP where DeptNo=20;\
-- Q9. List the employees whose names contains 3 rd letter as \'91I\'92.\
select EmpName from EMP where EmpName LIKE '__i%';\
-- Q10. List the maximum salary paid to a salesman.\
select max(Sal) as MaximumSalary from EMP where DeptNo=30;\
-- Q11. Increase the salary of salesman by 10% of their current salary.\
update EMP set Sal=1.1*Sal where DeptNo=30;\
\
\
-- Query Set 2\
-- Q1. List the employee names and his annual salary dept wise.\
 select EmpName, DeptNo, Sal as 'AnnualSalary' from EMP order by DeptNo;\
-- Q2. Find out max 5 earners of the company.\
 select * from EMP where Sal in (select Sal from EMP order by sal desc limit 0,5);\
-- Q3. List the records from emp whose deptno is not in dept\
select * from EMP where DeptNo not in (select DeptNo from DEPT);\
-- Q4. List those employees whose sal is odd value.\
select * from EMP where sal%2!=0;\
-- Q5. List the employees whose sal contain 3 digits.\
select * from EMP where Sal like '___';\
-- Q6. List the employees who joined in the month of \'91DEC\'92\
select * from EMP where month(HireDate)=12;\
-- Q7. List the employees whose names contains \'91A\'92\
select * from EMP where EmpName Like '%a%';\
-- Q8. List the maximum, minimum and average salary in the company.\
select max(Sal) as MaxSalary, min(Sal) as MinSalary, avg(Sal) as AverageSalary from EMP;\
-- Q9. Write a query to return the day of the week for any date(or HIRE_DATE) entered in format \'91DD-MMYY\'92\
select EmpName, DAYNAME(HireDate) from EMP;\
-- Q10. Count the no of characters in employee name without considering spaces for each name.\
select EmpName, length(trim(EmpName)) as NumOfCharacters from EMP;\
-- Q11. List the employees who are drawing less than 1000. sort the output by salary.\
select EmpName, Sal from EMP where Sal<1000 order by Sal;\
\
\
-- Query Set 3\
-- Q1. Write a query in SQL to display the unique designations for the employees.\
select distinct(Job) from EMP;\
-- Q2. Delete Employees who joined in Year 1980.\
delete from EMP where year(HireDate)=1980;\
-- Q3 is same as Q2. Delete from emp where year(hiredate)=1980; or\
-- Q4. Delete from emp where hiredate between \'9101-01-1980\'92 and \'9131-12-1980\'92;\
delete from EMP where HireDate between '1980-01-01' and '1980-12-31';\
-- Q5 & 6. Increase the salary of Managers by 20% of their current salary update\
update EMP set Sal=1.2*Sal where Job like '%Manager';\
-- Q7. List employees not belonging to department 30, 40, or 10.\
select EmpNo, EmpName, DeptNo from EMP where DeptNo!=30 and DeptNo!=40 and DeptNo!=10;\
-- Q8. List the different designations in the company.\
select distinct(Job) from EMP;\
-- Q9. List the names of employees who are not eligible for commission.\
select * from EMP where Comm is null;\
-- Q10. List employees whose names either start or end with \'93S\'94.\
select * from EMP where EmpName like 'S%' or EmpName like '%s';\
-- Q11. List employees whose names have letter \'93A\'94 as second letter\'94 in their names.\
select * from EMP where EmpName like '_a%';\
-- Q12. List the number of employees working with the company.\
select count(*) from EMP;dept\
-- Q13. List the emps with hiredate in format June 4,1988.\
select EmpName, date_format(HireDate,'%M %d, %y') from EMP;\
-- select EmpName, to_char(HireDate,'June 4,1988')from EMP;\
-- Q14. List the salesmen who get the commission within a range of 200 and 500.\
select * from EMP where DeptNo=30 and (Comm between 200 and 500);\
\
\
-- Query Set 4\
-- Q1. List names of employees who are more than 2 years old in the company.\
select * from EMP where ((datediff(curdate(),HireDate))/365)>2;\
-- Q2. List the employee details in the ascending order of their basic salary.\
select * from EMP order by Sal;\
-- Q3. Display the employees who have more salary as that of Smith\
select * from EMP where Sal>(select Sal from EMP where EmpName='Smith');\
-- Q4. Increment the salary of Emp no. 7499 by 10% of his current salary.\
update EMP set Sal=1.1*Sal where EmpNo=7499;\
-- Q5. List the employees whose salary is between 10000 and 25000.\
select * from EMP where Sal between 10000 and 25000;\
-- Q6. List the names of employees who are not eligible for commission.\
select * from EMP where Comm is null;\
-- Q7. Increment the Salary of Clerk by 10% of basic salary.\
update EMP set Sal=1.1*Sal where Job='Clerk';\
-- Q8. List the total salary, maximum and minimum salary and average salary of the employees jobwise.\
select Job, sum(Sal) as TotalSalary, max(Sal) as MaxSalary, min(Sal) as MinSalary, avg(Sal) as AverageSalary from EMP group by Job;\
-- Q9. Delete the Employee whose name starts with P.\
delete from EMP where EmpName like 'a%';\
-- Q10. List the employees whose designation is \'93Clerk\'94 and commission is > 500.\
select * from EMP where Job like 'Clerk' and Comm>500;\
-- Q11. List employees belonging to department 20, 30, 40.\
select EmpNo, EmpName, DeptNo from EMP where DeptNo=20 or DeptNo=30 or DeptNo=40;\
\
\
-- Query Set 5\
-- Q1. List the departments in which more than 5 employees are hired in year 2022 in order of department no;\
 select * from DEPT where DeptNo in (select DeptNo from EMP where count in (select (year(HireDate)) as year2 where year(HireDate)=2022) order by DeptNo);\
-- Q2. List the count of employees in each department on each position order by department no and then position\
select Job,DeptNo,count(*) from EMP group by DeptNo, Job order by DeptNo, Job;\
-- Q3. List the count of employees and sum of salaries of such departments in which no employees are taking commission in order of department no\
select count(*), sum(Sal) from EMP where Comm=0  group by DeptNo order by DeptNo;\
-- Q4. Display the departments in which total salary earned by all \'91managers\'92 is more than 500000.\
select DeptNo, sum(Sal) from EMP where Job like '%Manager%' group by DeptNo having sum(Sal)>500000;\
-- Q5.  Display total salary earned by each department on each position\
select DeptNo, Job, sum(Sal) from EMP group by DeptNo, Job order by DeptNo, Job;}