# Step by Step ERD Example #

A university contains many Faculties. The Faculties in turn are divided into several Schools. Each School offers numerous programs and each program contains many courses. Lecturers can teach many diffrent courses and even the same course numerouos times. Courses can also be taught by many lecturers. A student is enrolled in only one program but a program can contain many students. Students can be enrolled in many courses at the same time and the courses have many students enrolled.

The bank is organised into branches. Each branch is located in a particular city and is identified by a unique name. The bank monitors the assets of each branch.
Bank customers are identified by their customer id value. The bank stores each customer's name, and the street and the city where thecustomer lives. Customers may have accounts and can take out loans. A customer may be associated with a particular banker; who may act as a loan officer or personal banker for that customer.
The bank offers two types of accounts: savings and checking accounts.
Accounts can be held by more than one customer, and a customer can have more than one account. Each account is assigned a unique account number. The bank mantains a record of each account's balance and the most recent date on which the account was accessed by each customer holding the account. In addition each savings account has an interest rate, and overdrafts are recorded for each checking account.
The bank provides its customers with loans. A loan originates at a particular branch and can be held by one or more customers. A loan is identified by unique loan number. For each loan, the bank keeps track of loan amount and the loan payments. Although a loan-payment number does not uniquely identify a particular payment among those for all the bank's loans, a payment number does identify a particular payment for a specific loan. The date and the amount are recorded for each payment.
Bank employees are identified by their employee id values. The bank administration stores the name and telephone number of each employee, the names of the employee's dependents, and the employee id number of the employee's manager. The bank also keeps track of the employee's start date and, thus, length of employment.

